---
title: "Jupyter Overview"
description: "A guide on how to use Jupyter once installed and its different features"
collection: jupyter
---

Jupyter Overview
================

The Jupyter Notebook App is a server - client application that allows
editing and running notebook documents via a web browser. The Jupyter
Notebook App can be executed on a local desktop requiring no internal
access or can be installed on a remote server and accessed through the
internet.

In addition to displaying/editing/running notebook documents, the
Jupyter Notebook App has a “Dashboard”, a “control panel” showing local
files and allowing to open notebook documents or shutting down their
kernels.

### Notebook document

Notebook documents are documents produced by the Jupyter Notebook App,
which contain both computer code (e.g. python) and rich text elements
(paragraph, equations, figures, links, etc.). Notebook documents can
contain the analysis description and the results (figures, tables,
etc..) as well as executable documents which can be run to perform data
analysis.

### Kernel

A notebook kernel is a “computational engine” that executes the code
contained in a Notebook document. The ipython kernel, executes python
code. Kernels for many other languages exist (official kernels).

When you open a Notebook document, the associated kernel is
automatically launched. When the notebook is executed (either
cell-by-cell or with menu Cell -&gt; Run All), the kernel performs the
computation and produces the results.

### Notebook Dahboard

The Notebook Dashboard is the component which is shown first when you
launch Jupyter Notebook App. The Notebook Dashboard is mainly used to
open notebook documents, and to manage the running kernels (visualize
and shutdown).

The Notebook Dashboard has other features similar to a file manager,
namely navigating folders and renaming/deleting files.
